<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title epub:type="z3998:roman">XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
			<p>In the silence that followed, Fulkerson looked from one lady to the other with dismay. “I seem to have put my foot in it, somehow,” he suggested, and Miss Woodburn gave a cry of laughter.</p>
			<p>“Poo’ <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson! Poo’ <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson! Papa thoat you wanted him to go.”</p>
			<p>“Wanted him to go?” repeated Fulkerson.</p>
			<p>“We always mention <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beaton when we want to get rid of papa.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it seems to me that I have noticed that he didn’t take much interest in Beaton, as a general topic. But I don’t know that I ever saw it drive him out of the room before!”</p>
			<p>“Well, he isn’t always so bad,” said Miss Woodburn. “But it was a case of hate at first sight, and it seems to be growin’ on papa.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I can understand that,” said Fulkerson. “The impulse to destroy Beaton is something that everybody has to struggle against at the start.”</p>
			<p>“I must say, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton, in the tremor through which she nerved herself to differ openly with anyone she liked, “I never had to struggle with anything of the kind, in regard to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beaton. He has always been most respectful and⁠—and⁠—considerate, with me, whatever he has been with others.”</p>
			<p>“Well, of course, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton!” Fulkerson came back in a soothing tone. “But you see you’re the rule that proves the exception. I was speaking of the way men felt about Beaton. It’s different with ladies; I just said so.”</p>
			<p>“Is it always different?” Alma asked, lifting her head and her hand from her drawing, and staring at it absently.</p>
			<p>Fulkerson pushed both his hands through his whiskers. “Look here! Look here!” he said. “Won’t somebody start some other subject? We haven’t had the weather up yet, have we? Or the opera? What is the matter with a few remarks about politics?”</p>
			<p>“Why, Ah thoat you lahked to toak about the staff of yo’ magazine,” said Miss Woodburn.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I do!” said Fulkerson. “But not always about the same member of it. He gets monotonous, when he doesn’t get complicated. I’ve just come round from the Marches’,” he added, to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton.</p>
			<p>“I suppose they’ve got thoroughly settled in their apartment by this time.” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton said something like this whenever the Marches were mentioned. At the bottom of her heart she had not forgiven them for not taking her rooms; she had liked their looks so much; and she was always hoping that they were uncomfortable or dissatisfied; she could not help wanting them punished a little.</p>
			<p>“Well, yes; as much as they ever will be,” Fulkerson answered. “The Boston style is pretty different, you know; and the Marches are old-fashioned folks, and I reckon they never went in much for bric-a-brac. They’ve put away nine or ten barrels of dragon candlesticks, but they keep finding new ones.”</p>
			<p>“Their landlady has just joined our class,” said Alma. “Isn’t her name Green? She happened to see my copy of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Every Other Week</i>, and said she knew the editor; and told me.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s a little world,” said Fulkerson. “You seem to be touching elbows with everybody. Just think of your having had our head translator for a model.”</p>
			<p>“Ah think that your whole publication revolves aroand the Leighton family,” said Miss Woodburn.</p>
			<p>“That’s pretty much so,” Fulkerson admitted. “Anyhow, the publisher seems disposed to do so.”</p>
			<p>“Are you the publisher? I thought it was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dryfoos,” said Alma.</p>
			<p>“It is.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!”</p>
			<p>The tone and the word gave Fulkerson a discomfort which he promptly confessed. “Missed again.”</p>
			<p>The girls laughed, and he regained something of his lost spirits, and smiled upon their gayety, which lasted beyond any apparent reason for it.</p>
			<p>Miss Woodburn asked, “And is <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dryfoos senio’ anything like ouah <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dryfoos?”</p>
			<p>“Not the least.”</p>
			<p>“But he’s jost as exemplary?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; in his way.”</p>
			<p>“Well, Ah wish Ah could see all those pinks of puffection togethah, once.”</p>
			<p>“Why, look here! I’ve been thinking I’d celebrate a little, when the old gentleman gets back. Have a little supper⁠—something of that kind. How would you like to let me have your parlors for it, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton? You ladies could stand on the stairs, and have a peep at us, in the bunch.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, mah! What a privilege! And will Miss Alma be there, with the othah contributors? Ah shall jost expah of envy!”</p>
			<p>“She won’t be there in person,” said Fulkerson, “but she’ll be represented by the head of the art department.”</p>
			<p>“Mah goodness! And who’ll the head of the publishing department represent?”</p>
			<p>“He can represent you,” said Alma.</p>
			<p>“Well, Ah want to be represented, someho’.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll have the banquet the night before you appear on the cover of our fourth number,” said Fulkerson.</p>
			<p>“Ah thoat that was doubly fo’bidden,” said Miss Woodburn. “By the stern parent and the envious awtust.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll get Beaton to get round them, somehow. I guess we can trust him to manage that.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton sighed her resentment of the implication.</p>
			<p>“I always feel that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beaton doesn’t do himself justice,” she began.</p>
			<p>Fulkerson could not forego the chance of a joke. “Well, maybe he would rather temper justice with mercy in a case like his.” This made both the younger ladies laugh. “I judge this is my chance to get off with my life,” he added, and he rose as he spoke. “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton, I am about the only man of my sex who doesn’t thirst for Beaton’s blood most of the time. But I know him and I don’t. He’s more kinds of a good fellow than people generally understand. He doesn’t wear his heart upon his sleeve⁠—not his ulster sleeve, anyway. You can always count me on your side when it’s a question of finding Beaton not guilty if he’ll leave the State.”</p>
			<p>Alma set her drawing against the wall, in rising to say goodnight to Fulkerson. He bent over on his stick to look at it. “Well, it’s beautiful,” he sighed, with unconscious sincerity.</p>
			<p>Alma made him a courtesy of mock modesty. “Thanks to Miss Woodburn!”</p>
			<p>“Oh no! All she had to do was simply to stay put.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you think Ah might have improved it if Ah had looked better?” the girl asked, gravely.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you couldn’t!” said Fulkerson, and he went off triumphant in their applause and their cries of “Which? which?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton sank deep into an accusing gloom when at last she found herself alone with her daughter. “I don’t know what you are thinking about, Alma Leighton. If you don’t like <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beaton⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I don’t.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t? You know better than that. You know that, you did care for him.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! that’s a very different thing. That’s a thing that can be got over.”</p>
			<p>“Got over!” repeated <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton, aghast.</p>
			<p>“Of course, it can! Don’t be romantic, mamma. People get over dozens of such fancies. They even marry for love two or three times.”</p>
			<p>“Never!” cried her mother, doing her best to feel shocked; and at last looking it.</p>
			<p>Her looking it had no effect upon Alma. “You can easily get over caring for people; but you can’t get over liking them⁠—if you like them because they are sweet and good. That’s what lasts. I was a simple goose, and he imposed upon me because he was a sophisticated goose. Now the case is reversed.”</p>
			<p>“He does care for you, now. You can see it. Why do you encourage him to come here?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t,” said Alma. “I will tell him to keep away if you like. But whether he comes or goes, it will be the same.”</p>
			<p>“Not to him, Alma! He is in love with you!”</p>
			<p>“He has never said so.”</p>
			<p>“And you would really let him say so, when you intend to refuse him?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t very well refuse him till he does say so.”</p>
			<p>This was undeniable. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton could only demand, in an awful tone, “May I ask why⁠—if you cared for him; and I know you care for him still you will refuse him?”</p>
			<p>Alma laughed. “Because⁠—because I’m wedded to my Art, and I’m not going to commit bigamy, whatever I do.”</p>
			<p>“Alma!”</p>
			<p>“Well, then, because I don’t like him⁠—that is, I don’t believe in him, and don’t trust him. He’s fascinating, but he’s false and he’s fickle. He can’t help it, I dare say.”</p>
			<p>“And you are perfectly hard. Is it possible that you were actually pleased to have <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson tease you about <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dryfoos?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, good night, now, mamma! This is becoming personal.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
