<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>II</h3>
			<p>“Why, Alma,” whispered the mother, “who in the world can it be at this time of night? You don’t suppose he⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m not going to the door, anyhow, mother, I don’t care who it is; and, of course, he wouldn’t be such a goose as to come at this hour.” She put on a look of miserable trepidation, and shrank back from the door, while the hum of the bell died away, in the hall.</p>
			<p>“What shall we do?” asked <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton, helplessly.</p>
			<p>“Let him go away⁠—whoever they are,” said Alma.</p>
			<p>Another and more peremptory ring forbade them refuge in this simple expedient.</p>
			<p>“Oh, dear! what shall we do? Perhaps it’s a despatch.”</p>
			<p>The conjecture moved Alma to no more than a rigid stare. “I shall not go,” she said. A third ring more insistent than the others followed, and she said: “You go ahead, mamma, and I’ll come behind to scream if it’s anybody. We can look through the sidelights at the door first.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton fearfully led the way from the back chamber where they had been sitting, and slowly descended the stairs. Alma came behind and turned up the hall gas-jet with a sudden flash that made them both jump a little. The gas inside rendered it more difficult to tell who was on the threshold, but <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton decided from a timorous peep through the scrims that it was a lady and gentleman. Something in this distribution of sex emboldened her; she took her life in her hand, and opened the door.</p>
			<p>The lady spoke. “Does <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton live heah?” she said, in a rich, throaty voice; and she feigned a reference to the agent’s permit she held in her hand.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton; she mechanically occupied the doorway, while Alma already quivered behind her with impatience of her impoliteness.</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said the lady, who began to appear more and more a young lady, “Ah didn’t know but Ah had mistaken the hoase. Ah suppose it’s rather late to see the apawtments, and Ah most ask you to pawdon us.” She put this tentatively, with a delicately growing recognition of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton as the lady of the house, and a humorous intelligence of the situation in the glance she threw Alma over her mother’s shoulder. “Ah’m afraid we most have frightened you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, not at all,” said Alma; and at the same time her mother said, “Will you walk in, please?”</p>
			<p>The gentleman promptly removed his hat and made the Leightons an inclusive bow. “You awe very kind, madam, and I am sorry for the trouble we awe giving you.” He was tall and severe-looking, with a gray, trooperish mustache and iron-gray hair, and, as Alma decided, iron-gray eyes. His daughter was short, plump, and fresh-colored, with an effect of liveliness that did not all express itself in her broad-vowelled, rather formal speech, with its odd valuations of some of the auxiliary verbs, and its total elision of the canine letter.</p>
			<p>“We awe from the Soath,” she said, “and we arrived this mawning, but we got this cyahd from the brokah just befo’ dinnah, and so we awe rathah late.”</p>
			<p>“Not at all; it’s only nine o’clock,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton. She looked up from the card the young lady had given her, and explained, “We haven’t got in our servants yet, and we had to answer the bell ourselves, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You were frightened, of coase,” said the young lady, caressingly.</p>
			<p>The gentleman said they ought not to have come so late, and he offered some formal apologies.</p>
			<p>“We should have been just as much scared any time after five o’clock,” Alma said to the sympathetic intelligence in the girl’s face.</p>
			<p>She laughed out. “Of coase! Ah would have my hawt in my moath all day long, too, if Ah was living in a big hoase alone.”</p>
			<p>A moment of stiffness followed; <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton would have liked to withdraw from the intimacy of the situation, but she did not know how. It was very well for these people to assume to be what they pretended; but, she reflected too late, she had no proof of it except the agent’s permit. They were all standing in the hall together, and she prolonged the awkward pause while she examined the permit. “You are <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Woodburn?” she asked, in a way that Alma felt implied he might not be.</p>
			<p>“Yes, madam; from Charlottesboag, Virginia,” he answered, with the slight umbrage a man shows when the strange cashier turns his check over and questions him before cashing it.</p>
			<p>Alma writhed internally, but outwardly remained subordinate; she examined the other girl’s dress, and decided in a superficial consciousness that she had made her own bonnet.</p>
			<p>“I shall be glad to show you my rooms,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton, with an irrelevant sigh. “You must excuse their being not just as I should wish them. We’re hardly settled yet.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t speak of it, madam,” said the gentleman, “if you can overlook the trouble we awe giving you at such an unseasonable houah.”</p>
			<p>“Ah’m a hoasekeepah mahself,” Miss Woodburn joined in, “and Ah know ho’ to accyoant fo’ everything.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton led the way upstairs, and the young lady decided upon the large front room and small side room on the third story. She said she could take the small one, and the other was so large that her father could both sleep and work in it. She seemed not ashamed to ask if <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton’s price was inflexible, but gave way laughing when her father refused to have any bargaining, with a haughty self-respect which he softened to deference for <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton. His impulsiveness opened the way for some confidence from her, and before the affair was arranged she was enjoying in her quality of clerical widow the balm of the Virginians’ reverent sympathy. They said they were church people themselves.</p>
			<p>“Ah don’t know what yo’ mothah means by yo’ hoase not being in oddah,” the young lady said to Alma as they went downstairs together. “Ah’m a great hoasekeepah mahself, and Ah mean what Ah say.”</p>
			<p>They had all turned mechanically into the room where the Leightons were sitting when the Woodburns rang: <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Woodburn consented to sit down, and he remained listening to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton while his daughter bustled up to the sketches pinned round the room and questioned Alma about them.</p>
			<p>“Ah suppose you awe going to be a great awtust?” she said, in friendly banter, when Alma owned to having done the things. “Ah’ve a great notion to take a few lessons mahself. Who’s yo’ teachah?”</p>
			<p>Alma said she was drawing in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wetmore’s class, and Miss Woodburn said: “Well, it’s just beautiful, Miss Leighton; it’s grand. Ah suppose it’s raght expensive, now? Mah goodness! we have to cyoant the coast so much nowadays; it seems to me we do nothing but cyoant it. Ah’d like to hah something once without askin’ the price.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if you didn’t ask it,” said Alma, “I don’t believe <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wetmore would ever know what the price of his lessons was. He has to think, when you ask him.”</p>
			<p>“Why, he most be chomming,” said Miss Woodburn. “Perhaps Ah maght get the lessons for nothing from him. Well, Ah believe in my soul Ah’ll trah. Now ho’ did you begin? and ho’ do you expect to get anything oat of it?” She turned on Alma eyes brimming with a shrewd mixture of fun and earnest, and Alma made note of the fact that she had an early nineteenth-century face, round, arch, a little coquettish, but extremely sensible and unspoiled-looking, such as used to be painted a good deal in miniature at that period; a tendency of her brown hair to twine and twist at the temples helped the effect; a high comb would have completed it, Alma felt, if she had her bonnet off. It was almost a Yankee country-girl type; but perhaps it appeared so to Alma because it was, like that, pure Anglo-Saxon. Alma herself, with her dull, dark skin, slender in figure, slow in speech, with aristocratic forms in her long hands, and the oval of her fine face pointed to a long chin, felt herself much more Southern in style than this blooming, bubbling, bustling Virginian.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” she answered, slowly.</p>
			<p>“Going to take po’traits,” suggested Miss Woodburn, “or just paint the ahdeal?” A demure burlesque lurked in her tone.</p>
			<p>“I suppose I don’t expect to paint at all,” said Alma. “I’m going to illustrate books⁠—if anybody will let me.”</p>
			<p>“Ah should think they’d just joamp at you,” said Miss Woodburn. “Ah’ll tell you what let’s do, Miss Leighton: you make some pictures, and Ah’ll wrahte a book fo’ them. Ah’ve got to do something. Ali maght as well wrahte a book. You know we Southerners have all had to go to woak. But Ah don’t mand it. I tell papa I shouldn’t ca’ fo’ the disgrace of bein’ poo’ if it wasn’t fo’ the inconvenience.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, it’s inconvenient,” said Alma; “but you forget it when you’re at work, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p>“Mah, yes! Perhaps that’s one reason why poo’ people have to woak so hawd⁠—to keep their mands off their poverty.”</p>
			<p>The girls both tittered, and turned from talking in a low tone with their backs toward their elders, and faced them.</p>
			<p>“Well, Madison,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Woodburn, “it is time we should go. I bid you good night, madam,” he bowed to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton. “Good night,” he bowed again to Alma.</p>
			<p>His daughter took leave of them in formal phrase, but with a jolly cordiality of manner that deformalized it. “We shall be roand raght soon in the mawning, then,” she threatened at the door.</p>
			<p>“We shall be all ready for you,” Alma called after her down the steps.</p>
			<p>“Well, Alma?” her mother asked, when the door closed upon them.</p>
			<p>“She doesn’t know any more about art,” said Alma, “than⁠—nothing at all. But she’s jolly and good-hearted. She praised everything that was bad in my sketches, and said she was going to take lessons herself. When a person talks about taking lessons, as if they could learn it, you know where they belong artistically.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton shook her head with a sigh. “I wish I knew where they belonged financially. We shall have to get in two girls at once. I shall have to go out the first thing in the morning, and then our troubles will begin.”</p>
			<p>“Well, didn’t you want them to begin? I will stay home and help you get ready. Our prosperity couldn’t begin without the troubles, if you mean boarders, and boarders mean servants. I shall be very glad to be afflicted with a cook for a while myself.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; but we don’t know anything about these people, or whether they will be able to pay us. Did she talk as if they were well off?”</p>
			<p>“She talked as if they were poor; poo’ she called it.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, how queerly she pronounced,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Leighton. “Well, I ought to have told them that I required the first week in advance.”</p>
			<p>“Mamma! If that’s the way you’re going to act!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, of course, I couldn’t, after he wouldn’t let her bargain for the rooms. I didn’t like that.”</p>
			<p>“I did. And you can see that they were perfect ladies; or at least one of them.” Alma laughed at herself, but her mother did not notice.</p>
			<p>“Their being ladies won’t help if they’ve got no money. It’ll make it all the worse.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, then; we have no money, either. We’re a match for them any day there. We can show them that two can play at that game.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
