<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
			<p>They went to a quiet hotel far downtown, and took a small apartment which they thought they could easily afford for the day or two they need spend in looking up a furnished flat. They were used to staying at this hotel when they came on for a little outing in New York, after some rigid winter in Boston, at the time of the spring exhibitions. They were remembered there from year to year; the colored call-boys, who never seemed to get any older, smiled upon them, and the clerk called March by name even before he registered. He asked if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March were with him, and said then he supposed they would want their usual quarters; and in a moment they were domesticated in a far interior that seemed to have been waiting for them in a clean, quiet, patient disoccupation ever since they left it two years before. The little parlor, with its gilt paper and ebonized furniture, was the lightest of the rooms, but it was not very light at noonday without the gas, which the bellboy now flared up for them. The uproar of the city came to it in a soothing murmur, and they took possession of its peace and comfort with open celebration. After all, they agreed, there <em>was</em> no place in the world so delightful as a hotel apartment like that; the boasted charms of home were nothing to it; and then the magic of its being always there, ready for anyone, everyone, just as if it were for someone alone: it was like the experience of an <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arabian Nights</i> hero come true for all the race.</p>
			<p>“Oh, <em>why</em> can’t we always stay here, just we two!” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March sighed to her husband, as he came out of his room rubbing his face red with the towel, while she studied a new arrangement of her bonnet and handbag on the mantel.</p>
			<p>“And ignore the past? I’m willing. I’ve no doubt that the children could get on perfectly well without us, and could find some lot in the scheme of Providence that would really be just as well for them.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; or could contrive somehow never to have existed. I should insist upon that. If they <em>are</em>, don’t you see that we couldn’t wish them <em>not to be</em>?”</p>
			<p>“Oh yes; I see your point; it’s simply incontrovertible.”</p>
			<p>She laughed and said: “Well, at any rate, if we can’t find a flat to suit us we can all crowd into these three rooms somehow, for the winter, and then browse about for meals. By the week we could get them much cheaper; and we could save on the eating, as they do in Europe. Or on something else.”</p>
			<p>“Something else, probably,” said March. “But we won’t take this apartment till the ideal furnished flat winks out altogether. We shall not have any trouble. We can easily find someone who is going South for the winter and will be glad to give up their flat ‘to the right party’ at a nominal rent. That’s my notion. That’s what the Evanses did one winter when they came on here in February. All but the nominality of the rent.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, and we could pay a very good rent and still save something on letting our house. You can settle yourselves in a hundred different ways in New York, that is one merit of the place. But if everything else fails, we can come back to this. I want you to take the refusal of it, Basil. And we’ll commence looking this very evening as soon as we’ve had dinner. I cut a lot of things out of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Herald</i> as we came on. See here!”</p>
			<p>She took a long strip of paper out of her handbag with minute advertisements pinned transversely upon it, and forming the effect of some glittering nondescript vertebrate.</p>
			<p>“Looks something like the sea-serpent,” said March, drying his hands on the towel, while he glanced up and down the list. “But we shan’t have any trouble. I’ve no doubt there are half a dozen things there that will do. You haven’t gone uptown? Because we must be near the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Every Other Week</i> office.”</p>
			<p>“No; but I <em>wish</em> <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson hadn’t called it that! It always makes one think of ‘jam yesterday and jam tomorrow, but never jam today,’ in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Through the Looking-Glass</i>. They’re all in this region.”</p>
			<p>They were still at their table, beside a low window, where some sort of never-blooming shrub symmetrically balanced itself in a large pot, with a leaf to the right and a leaf to the left and a spear up the middle, when Fulkerson came stepping square-footedly over the thick dining-room carpet. He wagged in the air a gay hand of salutation at sight of them, and of repression when they offered to rise to meet him; then, with an apparent simultaneity of action he gave a hand to each, pulled up a chair from the next table, put his hat and stick on the floor beside it, and seated himself.</p>
			<p>“Well, you’ve burned your ships behind you, sure enough,” he said, beaming his satisfaction upon them from eyes and teeth.</p>
			<p>“The ships are burned,” said March, “though I’m not sure we alone did it. But here we are, looking for shelter, and a little anxious about the disposition of the natives.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, they’re an awful peaceable lot,” said Fulkerson. “I’ve been round among the caciques a little, and I think I’ve got two or three places that will just suit you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March. How did you leave the children?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, how kind of you! Very well, and very proud to be left in charge of the smoking wrecks.”</p>
			<p>Fulkerson naturally paid no attention to what she said, being but secondarily interested in the children at the best. “Here are some things right in this neighborhood, within gunshot of the office, and if you want you can go and look at them tonight; the agents gave me houses where the people would be in.”</p>
			<p>“We will go and look at them instantly,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March. “Or, as soon as you’ve had coffee with us.”</p>
			<p>“Never do,” Fulkerson replied. He gathered up his hat and stick. “Just rushed in to say Hello, and got to run right away again. I tell you, March, things are humming. I’m after those fellows with a sharp stick all the while to keep them from loafing on my house, and at the same time I’m just bubbling over with ideas about <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Lone Hand</i>⁠—wish we <em>could</em> call it that!⁠—that I want to talk up with you.”</p>
			<p>“Well, come to breakfast,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March, cordially.</p>
			<p>“No; the ideas will keep till you’ve secured your lodge in this vast wilderness. Goodbye.”</p>
			<p>“You’re as nice as you can be, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson,” she said, “to keep us in mind when you have so much to occupy you.”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t have <em>any</em>thing to occupy me if I <em>hadn’t</em> kept you in mind, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March,” said Fulkerson, going off upon as good a speech as he could apparently hope to make.</p>
			<p>“Why, Basil,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March, when he was gone, “he’s charming! But now we mustn’t lose an instant. Let’s see where the places are.” She ran over the half-dozen agents’ permits. “Capital⁠—first-rate⁠—the very thing⁠—every one. Well, I consider ourselves settled! We can go back to the children tomorrow if we like, though I rather think I should like to stay over another day and get a little rested for the final pulling up that’s got to come. But this simplifies everything enormously, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson is as thoughtful and as sweet as he can be. I know you will get on well with him. He has such a good heart. And his attitude toward you, Basil, is beautiful always⁠—so respectful; or not that so much as appreciative. Yes, appreciative⁠—that’s the word; I must always keep that in mind.”</p>
			<p>“It’s quite important to do so,” said March.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she assented, seriously, “and we must not forget just what kind of flat we are going to look for. The sine qua nons are an elevator and steam heat, not above the third floor, to begin with. Then we must each have a room, and you must have your study and I must have my parlor; and the two girls must each have a room. With the kitchen and dining room, how many does that make?”</p>
			<p>“Ten.”</p>
			<p>“I thought eight. Well, no matter. You can work in the parlor, and run into your bedroom when anybody comes; and I can sit in mine, and the girls must put up with one, if it’s large and sunny, though I’ve always given them two at home. And the kitchen must be sunny, so they can sit in it. And the rooms must <em>all</em> have outside light. And the rent must not be over eight hundred for the winter. We only get a thousand for our whole house, and we <em>must</em> save something out of that, so as to cover the expenses of moving. Now, do you think you can remember all that?”</p>
			<p>“Not the half of it,” said March. “But <em>you</em> can; or if you forget a third of it, I can come in with my partial half and more than make it up.”</p>
			<p>She had brought her bonnet and sacque downstairs with her, and was transferring them from the hat rack to her person while she talked. The friendly door-boy let them into the street, and the clear October evening air brightened her so that as she tucked her hand under her husband’s arm and began to pull him along she said, “If we find something right away⁠—and we’re just as likely to get the right flat soon as late; it’s all a lottery⁠—we’ll go to the theatre somewhere.”</p>
			<p>She had a moment’s panic about having left the agents’ permits on the table, and after remembering that she had put them into her little shopping-bag, where she kept her money (each note crushed into a round wad), and had left it on the hat rack, where it would certainly be stolen, she found it on her wrist. She did not think that very funny; but after a first impulse to inculpate her husband, she let him laugh, while they stopped under a lamp and she held the permits half a yard away to read the numbers on them.</p>
			<p>“Where are your glasses, Isabel?”</p>
			<p>“On the mantel in our room, of course.”</p>
			<p>“Then you ought to have brought a pair of tongs.”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t get off secondhand jokes, Basil,” she said; and “Why, here!” she cried, whirling round to the door before which they had halted, “this is the very number. Well, I do believe it’s a sign!”</p>
			<p>One of those colored men who soften the trade of janitor in many of the smaller apartment-houses in New York by the sweetness of their race let the Marches in, or, rather, welcomed them to the possession of the premises by the bow with which he acknowledged their permit. It was a large, old mansion cut up into five or six dwellings, but it had kept some traits of its former dignity, which pleased people of their sympathetic tastes. The dark-mahogany trim, of sufficiently ugly design, gave a rich gloom to the hallway, which was wide and paved with marble; the carpeted stairs curved aloft through a generous space.</p>
			<p>“There is no elevator?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March asked of the janitor.</p>
			<p>He answered, “No, ma’am; only two flights up,” so winningly that she said,</p>
			<p>“Oh!” in courteous apology, and whispered to her husband, as she followed lightly up, “We’ll take it, Basil, if it’s like the rest.”</p>
			<p>“If it’s like him, you mean.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t wonder they wanted to own them,” she hurriedly philosophized. “If I had such a creature, nothing but death should part us, and I should no more think of giving him his <em>freedom</em>!”</p>
			<p>“No; we couldn’t afford it,” returned her husband.</p>
			<p>The apartment which the janitor unlocked for them, and lit up from those chandeliers and brackets of gilt brass in the form of vine bunches, leaves, and tendrils in which the early gas-fitter realized most of his conceptions of beauty, had rather more of the ugliness than the dignity of the hall. But the rooms were large, and they grouped themselves in a reminiscence of the time when they were part of a dwelling that had its charm, its pathos, its impressiveness. Where they were cut up into smaller spaces, it had been done with the frankness with which a proud old family of fallen fortunes practises its economies. The rough pine floors showed a black border of tack-heads where carpets had been lifted and put down for generations; the white paint was yellow with age; the apartment had light at the front and at the back, and two or three rooms had glimpses of the day through small windows let into their corners; another one seemed lifting an appealing eye to heaven through a glass circle in its ceiling; the rest must darkle in perpetual twilight. Yet something pleased in it all, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March had gone far to adapt the different rooms to the members of her family, when she suddenly thought (and for her to think was to say), “Why, but there’s no steam heat!”</p>
			<p>“No, ma’am,” the janitor admitted; “but dere’s grates in most o’ de rooms, and dere’s furnace heat in de halls.”</p>
			<p>“That’s true,” she admitted, and, having placed her family in the apartments, it was hard to get them out again. “Could we manage?” she referred to her husband.</p>
			<p>“Why, <em>I</em> shouldn’t care for the steam heat if⁠—What is the rent?” he broke off to ask the janitor.</p>
			<p>“Nine hundred, sir.”</p>
			<p>March concluded to his wife, “If it were furnished.”</p>
			<p>“Why, of course! What could I have been thinking of? We’re looking for a furnished flat,” she explained to the janitor, “and this was so pleasant and homelike that I never thought whether it was furnished or not.”</p>
			<p>She smiled upon the janitor, and he entered into the joke and chuckled so amiably at her flattering oversight on the way downstairs that she said, as she pinched her husband’s arm, “Now, if you don’t give him a quarter I’ll never speak to you again, Basil!”</p>
			<p>“I would have given half a dollar willingly to get you beyond his glamour,” said March, when they were safely on the pavement outside. “If it hadn’t been for my strength of character, you’d have taken an unfurnished flat without heat and with no elevator, at nine hundred a year, when you had just sworn me to steam heat, an elevator, furniture, and eight hundred.”</p>
			<p>“Yes! How could I have lost my head so completely?” she said, with a lenient amusement in her aberration which she was not always able to feel in her husband’s.</p>
			<p>“The next time a colored janitor opens the door to us, I’ll tell him the apartment doesn’t suit at the threshold. It’s the only way to manage you, Isabel.”</p>
			<p>“It’s true. I <em>am</em> in love with the whole race. I never saw one of them that didn’t have perfectly angelic manners. I think we shall all be black in heaven⁠—that is, black-souled.”</p>
			<p>“That isn’t the usual theory,” said March.</p>
			<p>“Well, perhaps not,” she assented. “Where are we going now? Oh yes, to the Xenophon!”</p>
			<p>She pulled him gayly along again, and after they had walked a block down and half a block over they stood before the apartment-house of that name, which was cut on the gas-lamps on either side of the heavily spiked, aesthetic-hinged black door. The titter of an electric-bell brought a large, fat Buttons, with a stage effect of being dressed to look small, who said he would call the janitor, and they waited in the dimly splendid, copper-colored interior, admiring the whorls and waves into which the wall-paint was combed, till the janitor came in his gold-banded cap, like a Continental <i xml:lang="fr">portier</i>. When they said they would like to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Grosvenor Green’s apartment, he owned his inability to cope with the affair, and said he must send for the superintendent; he was either in the Herodotus or the Thucydides, and would be there in a minute. The Buttons brought him⁠—a Yankee of browbeating presence in plain clothes⁠—almost before they had time to exchange a frightened whisper in recognition of the fact that there could be no doubt of the steam heat and elevator in this case. Half stifled in the one, they mounted in the other eight stories, while they tried to keep their self-respect under the gaze of the superintendent, which they felt was classing and assessing them with unfriendly accuracy. They could not, and they faltered abashed at the threshold of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Grosvenor Green’s apartment, while the superintendent lit the gas in the gangway that he called a private hall, and in the drawing-room and the succession of chambers stretching rearward to the kitchen. Everything had been done by the architect to save space, and everything to waste it by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Grosvenor Green. She had conformed to a law for the necessity of turning round in each room, and had folding-beds in the chambers, but there her subordination had ended, and wherever you might have turned round she had put a gimcrack so that you would knock it over if you did turn. The place was rather pretty and even imposing at first glance, and it took several joint ballots for March and his wife to make sure that with the kitchen there were only six rooms. At every door hung a portiere from large rings on a brass rod; every shelf and dressing-case and mantel was littered with gimcracks, and the corners of the tiny rooms were curtained off, and behind these portieres swarmed more gimcracks. The front of the upright piano had what March called a short-skirted portiere on it, and the top was covered with vases, with dragon candlesticks and with Jap fans, which also expanded themselves bat-wise on the walls between the etchings and the watercolors. The floors were covered with filling, and then rugs and then skins; the easy-chairs all had tidies, Armenian and Turkish and Persian; the lounges and sofas had embroidered cushions hidden under tidies.</p>
			<p>The radiator was concealed by a Jap screen, and over the top of this some Arab scarfs were flung. There was a superabundance of clocks. China pugs guarded the hearth; a brass sunflower smiled from the top of either andiron, and a brass peacock spread its tail before them inside a high filigree fender; on one side was a coal-hod in repoussé brass, and on the other a wrought iron wood-basket. Some red Japanese bird-kites were stuck about in the necks of spelter vases, a crimson Jap umbrella hung opened beneath the chandelier, and each globe had a shade of yellow silk.</p>
			<p>March, when he had recovered his self-command a little in the presence of the agglomeration, comforted himself by calling the bric-a-brac Jamescracks, as if this was their full name.</p>
			<p>The disrespect he was able to show the whole apartment by means of this joke strengthened him to say boldly to the superintendent that it was altogether too small; then he asked carelessly what the rent was.</p>
			<p>“Two hundred and fifty.”</p>
			<p>The Marches gave a start, and looked at each other.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you think we could make it do?” she asked him, and he could see that she had mentally saved five hundred dollars as the difference between the rent of their house and that of this flat. “It has some very pretty features, and we could manage to squeeze in, couldn’t we?”</p>
			<p>“You won’t find another furnished flat like it for no two-fifty a month in the whole city,” the superintendent put in.</p>
			<p>They exchanged glances again, and March said, carelessly, “It’s too small.”</p>
			<p>“There’s a vacant flat in the Herodotus for eighteen hundred a year, and one in the Thucydides for fifteen,” the superintendent suggested, clicking his keys together as they sank down in the elevator; “seven rooms and bath.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you,” said March; “we’re looking for a furnished flat.”</p>
			<p>They felt that the superintendent parted from them with repressed sarcasm.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Basil, do you think we <em>really</em> made him think it was the smallness and not the dearness?”</p>
			<p>“No, but we saved our self-respect in the attempt; and that’s a great deal.”</p>
			<p>“Of course, I <em>wouldn’t</em> have taken it, anyway, with only six rooms, and so high up. But what prices! Now, we must be very circumspect about the next place.”</p>
			<p>It was a janitress, large, fat, with her arms wound up in her apron, who received them there. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March gave her a succinct but perfect statement of their needs. She failed to grasp the nature of them, or feigned to do so. She shook her head, and said that her son would show them the flat. There was a radiator visible in the narrow hall, and Isabel tacitly compromised on steam heat without an elevator, as the flat was only one flight up. When the son appeared from below with a small kerosene hand-lamp, it appeared that the flat was unfurnished, but there was no stopping him till he had shown it in all its impossibility. When they got safely away from it and into the street March said: “Well, have you had enough for tonight, Isabel? Shall we go to the theatre now?”</p>
			<p>“Not on any account. I want to see the whole list of flats that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson thought would be the very thing for us.” She laughed, but with a certain bitterness.</p>
			<p>“You’ll be calling him my <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson next, Isabel.”</p>
			<p>“Oh no!”</p>
			<p>The fourth address was a furnished flat without a kitchen, in a house with a general restaurant. The fifth was a furnished house. At the sixth a pathetic widow and her pretty daughter wanted to take a family to board, and would give them a private table at a rate which the Marches would have thought low in Boston.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> March came away tingling with compassion for their evident anxiety, and this pity naturally soured into a sense of injury. “Well, I must say I have completely lost confidence in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fulkerson’s judgment. Anything more utterly different from what I told him we wanted I couldn’t imagine. If he doesn’t manage any better about his business than he has done about this, it will be a perfect failure.”</p>
			<p>“Well, well, let’s hope he’ll be more circumspect about that,” her husband returned, with ironical propitiation. “But I don’t think it’s Fulkerson’s fault altogether. Perhaps it’s the house-agents’. They’re a very illusory generation. There seems to be something in the human habitation that corrupts the natures of those who deal in it, to buy or sell it, to hire or let it. You go to an agent and tell him what kind of a house you want. He has no such house, and he sends you to look at something altogether different, upon the well-ascertained principle that if you can’t get what you want you will take what you can get. You don’t suppose the ‘party’ that took our house in Boston was looking for any such house? He was looking for a totally different kind of house in another part of the town.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe that!” his wife broke in.</p>
			<p>“Well, no matter. But see what a scandalous rent you asked for it.”</p>
			<p>“We didn’t get much more than half; and, besides, the agent told me to ask fourteen hundred.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m not blaming you, Isabel. I’m only analyzing the house-agent and exonerating Fulkerson.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t believe he told them just what we wanted; and, at any rate, I’m done with agents. Tomorrow I’m going entirely by advertisements.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
